Test, test, test, test, test.
Just don't even think it's here.
Just there.
Why don't you start now?
Okay.
This is part of the river collection here in this room.
I do have a few other books scattered throughout.
My goal is to collect every edition of everything.
So these, pardon me, but what I'm looking at here in our subsequent editions, they're not... Well, there are a couple of these, but most of them are...
For instance, I think it's this one, at random, Powder River, Shethersburg.
This was the first part.
Powder River, the W-D-E-R.
Letterbuck by Struthers, S-C-R-U-T-O-G-R, S-B-E-R-T.
There's a very well-known Western writer.
This was published in 1938.
It was, I believe, the
or the fourth book in the series.
It's beautiful condition.
I see condition is exceedingly important to you.
I try to collect books in very good or better condition.
Occasionally with the reprints, in order to document the books, I have to take whatever I can get.
As the print ones, as the books were printed, some of the print ones were very small.
Could you give me a little background, explain what the series is?
The series consists of 65 titles.
It was a series of plans, started by Clemston, who was a
There she is.
Constance is incredible.
It's a little biography of her that was prepared by the Women's National Book Association.
In 1980, they have a little fire of her personal recollections by friends of Skinner, and they do give the Constance of Skinner Award.
I think I'll be able to get the background on her.
What prompted her fascination for Rivers, I wonder.
I wanted to get to her a copy of the... That's great.
And this is Jane talking.
What I want to say about Nancy Skinner is that she wrote a wonderful essay which outlined her intentions.
intentions with the Rivers of America series.
It's very, very cleverly thought through that America developed along its rivers and that for a long time the rivers were the major means of transportation, getting from one place to the other.
You have only to think about Lewis and Clark, for example.
But there were no highways, there were no railroads, there were no airlines, there were no bus routes.
You either went by wagon and took six months to get from St.
Louis to Maine
in Salt Lake City, or you use the rivers.
And she said that the story of our country, and she was a Canadian, I've heard, should be told through its rivers, and it should be told by poets and writers, not just historians.
This is so important to this new book that I'm working on.
She said incredible, incredible vision, really.
She wrote this?
This is written?
Yes.
Is this something I can take?
I can make a copy.
Oh, good.
We have a copy.
Excuse me.
How do you take a copy?
Just black.
All right.
Carol?
Green?
This was the essay that set forth the series, The River of America.
This was taken from the New York Public Library.
They have a 1937 question mark.
My research has determined now, after finding her papers at the New York Public Library, that this was probably written in 1935.
She talks about giving the brochure for prospective writers.
And this was her first essay.
Rivers at American Folk, O-L-K, by Constance Lindsay, L-I-N-D-S-A-Y, Skinner.
And it starts off, when Americans told her troubles that do not end quickly, such as the depression now passing off,
They begin presently to examine their own sources of the nation and their own story of the people.
They forget about these in good times.
And she goes on.
And she talks about, this is to be a literary and not an historical series.
The authors of these books will be novelists and poets.
That's wonderful.
On them, now in America, as in all lands and times, rests the real responsibility of interpretation.
She didn't want, in fact,
If you are able to attend the symposium, Dr. Thomas B. Clark, who wrote the Kentucky, and he's a noted Kentucky historian, he's in his 90s now.
He wanted to write.
He wanted to write a book on the Kentucky.
She turned him down because she didn't want historians to write that book.
After she died unexpectedly in 1939, after only two years of
Oh really?
So she really didn't see it?
She saw five titles published and she died while editing the gallery of the Hudson.
Significant been her first choice.
The choice for the writer of the first book was a poet, more than anything else.
And the poet was?
Robert T. Tristram Coffin.
Could we spell it?
It's Robert P. Tristram.
Okay.
And what was the river that he did?
Oh, the upper name?
Yeah.
And this was the first book in the series.
His reputation really was the Bentecost and the Dramatons.
They're a famous Maine family.
I went to Bates up in Maine.
You did.
I went to Germany.
They did?
Yeah.
I didn't graduate from Germany, but I was a big old.
So we were kind of cousins.
They did, and they still do.
Okay, great.
This was the first.
And this is inscribed?
Yeah.
It's Kennebec.
He may have taught us things sometimes.
He taught us those.
Oh, it's, Coffin is a famous, famous main name.
Frank Coffin was a federal judge.
The first book, they do lay out.
So they even had a little R of a... This is a series device that Farr and Reinhardt used.
Farr and Reinhardt published his book until 1945, and beginning in January of 1946, Reinhardt and company was formed, and they devised their own series device, which was a stylized oval with a little steamship in the center.
But this was...
I think Spires, and I forget who... Yeah, we have the name of the firm that just designed the logo.
Here's your copy.
Great, thank you, sir.
This may have a little more body than you like.
No, no, I like it.
Actually, it's wonderful.
Good.
I require caffeine, actually.
I do, too.
Well, this is what started it.
Why don't you... I'll join you.
Get comfortable somewhere.
You're looking... Standing up.
Would you rather sit down?
Would you rather have a chair in front of the bookcase?
Sit in a nice, comfortable chair.
Want me to bring your pocket, Carol?
Why don't I sit over here, Carol?
And...
How about if I sit right here?
How's this?
Okay.
The books are fine.
The books can stay right where they are.
Okay.
for the past six years, and I have original correspondence.
Many of the people with whom I have corresponded have since died, so I have information that really would have been lost forever had I not... Wow.
Maybe if we could talk just for both of you, 15 or 20 minutes, just to like and get, to just sit someplace close to me.
And I think you keep mentioning things that are...
You talk about the correspondence with the authors, and all these things are fascinating.
So tell me a little bit.
Why don't I start at the beginning?
Really.
I'm going to start right.
And then that will occasion some questions.
All right.
This started back in 1986.
Gene, you may know.
had donated a large collection of federal writer's projects and WPA items to our local library.
In 1984 and 1986, we had a symposium sponsored by the Florida Center for the Books and the Library of Congress here in Fort Lauderdale announcing these donations.
And there were several authors, and Jerry Manjohn, who directed the project, were here in town.
Two or three days.
That was the same weekend of the Miami Book Fair.
So with our good friend, Bill Pail, who was a book dealer in Georgetown and had a great jeans collection, we went to Miami and were going through the booze.
And I picked up a book on the St.
Johns River.
And it was in
pretty good shape, a dust jacket, and my sister lives on the St.
John's in Jacksonville, and I said, this will make a nice Christmas gift for her.
It was November.
From the year, once again?
1986.
I thought you said that, okay.
So, Bill Hale, the book dealer, said that would make a nice collection.
And, of course, Gene had just, we had just gotten rid of, I don't know, seven or eight hundred thousand pieces and books.
How many?
I don't know.
I think it was
We've lost count, but it was close to a thousand.
They were not all books.
But it was mostly books.
The Federal Writers Project went on for a long time, and they produced a lot of things because they were all over.
Stuff that was being read all over the United States, little monographs, little broadsheets, books and the state guides and all that.
There's a fellow in my book, before I forget, Fred
Mr. Bride, I guess is his name.
I will look it up before, but he collects these by the way of his project.
There are several famous collections.
There's a doctor in Philadelphia, as I remember.
There's a collector with an oriental name.
But immodestly, I will tell you, at the time of the donation to our library, my collection was the finest and the largest.
And it really got the library off on a new tack altogether.
Depression era studies and
And John Cole was here for that.
Yeah, I'm here.
That's when we met him.
So you actually had the collecting impulse.
Did it precede your own personal passion?
I think a little.
I think we all have a little desire to collect in us.
We were married the year that I made that donation, and I had been collecting federal artists 20 years before that long term.
Really?
Yeah.
I've had the impulse.
Mine was inspired by a Washington, D.C.
guy, which is still a very good guy for the city.
Did you have all of it?
Did you manage to get the whole?
Well, I had all the state guys and all the city guys, but no one will ever know what all really means in reference to the Federal Writers Project, because they gave their support to maybe a woman.
That's exactly the volunteer art department.
They did a cookbook or something.
Oh, they did a lot of cookbooks.
A lot of cookbooks.
And our library has continued to buy WPA and Federal Writers Project materials, and they have, I understand, doubled what Jane has given us just through the perseverance of working with dealers.
And people know that we will buy, our library will buy these items as some are available.
It is important, why did you decide to carpet it?
Did you feel that it was kind of complete, or was it time to pass it on?
I don't remember ever selling anything as much as I do, as all book collectors do.
I've done a few trades here.
The motivating force, however, was Jean Trevi.
Jean called me one day sort of out of the blue and asked me if I'd have lunch with her.
I was too innocent to realize that she had her eye on my collection, but that's what it was.
She was quite frank about it at the luncheon.
She's a frank lady.
Plus, yes, I had it.
And when I was a kid, I collected keys.
I used to go to, remember now, we're talking about depression era.
I would go into a key shop and say, do you have any keys that I can have?
Have you got any players?
Have you got any old?
Often they'd give me a cigar box.
And 10, 15 pounds of keys.
Here's a question for you.
Do you still have the keys?
No.
And I'll give you a better question.
Where are they?
I have no idea.
How did I come to party?
Blame your mother.
She must have thrown them by.
Well, there might have been... Well, I was born the mother.
Well, I went through a series of... How shall I put it?
I've been married before.
And maybe the keys got... Probably when I joined the Navy, I sort of got rid of a lot of... Here's another question.
I bet you'd like to have them back.
No, I would, because I never got to the logical point of learning locks, how to build a lock.
I know how locks work, but I never went through that.
The next thing you have to collect keys, it's got to be locks, right?
And I never got to that stage.
But again, don't blame Mother Glenn.
When we're dead, I'll give you a Hitler line, which is going to be used in the new book.
Okay, so we have this as background.
That's right.
That's how it began.
I bought the book and sat on the shelf here in the living room for maybe, I didn't give it to my sister for Christmas.
I just really didn't part.
It's a collector for you all the way.
There it is.
And shortly after, maybe in the spring, maybe the next fall.
Now we're into 87?
87.
So this collection has been put together in fewer than 10 years.
That's very important.
We were in San Francisco.
She was at a conference.
I had some time to kill, and I wanted into a rare bookstore.
And I, by the chance, do you have any Rivers of America titles?
And the woman looked at me, and she said, no.
She said, I specialize in children's literature.
I haven't given much thought.
And then all of a sudden, she said, yes, I do have a couple.
She said that I have them cataloged by the illustrator, and she had a copy of, a pristine copy of Brandywine by Henry Stiles Candy, which was illustrated by Andrew Wyatt, and the Arkansas... I knew you were going to say that because that's where they are, down in the Brandywine.
Illustrated by Donald McKay, who was a well-known children's book illustrator back in the 30s.
So I bought the book.
and one was $65, I think one was $25.
Steel.
Anything Wyeth.
And it was his first book to illustrate, ever.
We learned recently, last September at Wyeth in Nashville, Tennessee, that that was his first book of inspiration.
He was 23 years old.
And I love N.C.
Wyeth better than...
Better than Andrew, more than Jamie, I think.
Well, this was Andrew Wyatt.
This was Andrew?
Uh-huh.
He was 23?
Andrew, this would have been in 1940.
I'm sorry, I thought you said that.
Okay, it's still a steal.
And he's still wonderful.
So then I had three.
Now you have three.
And I have three.
And in these books, and this one's too early.
I remember that day in San Francisco.
Do you remember the name of the bookstore?
Yes, the Montsutter Street Bookstall.
Check it out.
So, they've moved their location, but it was the bookstall.
Now, this is the way, this is what I had.
I had this book, Rivers of America Books Already Published Art, and it started in chronological order.
I still had no way of knowing how many titles were in the series.
I didn't know what I was looking for, in other words.
I went to the library, books in print, to see books in series, to see if there was a list of release of America series books.
Well, there was, but it's very confusing.
Some, they list it out of print, and I guess if they're not in print, you might get some bad information.
I've had more bad information from books in libraries than I want to remember.
It had me going in the wrong direction early on my collecting date.
But anyway, I started aggressively collecting the books.
I took the ad out of the New York Times for rare and out-of-print book dealers, and I sent them all a letter.
I got responses.
The books started coming in boxes.
I bought everything.
My goal was to get a first edition in very good or better condition in dust jackets.
And I started putting them on shelves.
The books started pouring in and getting shelves.
And truthfully, I think if you're interested in what Carol does, she's an independent researcher.
She's an unpublished author.
She was an inexperienced writer at the time.
College graduate, true.
Good education, true.
I think a natural-born researcher.
But those books started pouring in, and she began to feel this.
It was kind of an irritation.
How many books are there?
Where are they?
What are the names of them?
Why isn't there any compilation?
Why can't we just get a list?
There it is.
The series started, and it ended.
And these are all the books that are written.
And there was a frustration there.
So this is the collector determining that there's a research tool that's missing.
There was nothing.
There was nothing in the library to guide me.
I started putting the books on a three-by-five card, the name of the book, and the author and the illustrator, and the date it was published, and that's how I began.
I started getting...
some interesting authors, some book dealers, like a copy of the Hudson published by William H. William H. and Company in London.
I said, I don't like that.
That can't be part of the series.
It threw me off.
So it was several years later that I thought, oh my goodness, that was part of the series.
I had since learned that there were four titles published in Great Britain, and there were four armed services editions.
13 of these books came out as special limited signed edition.
So I was trying to put the pieces together.
I knew eventually I learned there were 65 titles.
There is a song book that was published in 1942, the Psalms of the Rivers of America, and two of the titles were reprinted after Skinner's death.
They reprinted the Upper Mississippi by Walter Hall.
Revised it.
Revised and reprinted it.
and the James, two of the books that she probably had ever seen herself.
Do you mention that you're a researcher?
Maybe you can give me a little bit of biographical background.
Okay, well, I'm self-taught, but what I did was... Well, how about school in Mississippi?
Well, I have a degree in political science in Stanford University of Mississippi.
It's running again.
Okay, go ahead.
If it goes again, I'm not going to believe I need new batteries.
I just put new batteries.
I enjoyed research at the university.
Test one, two, test, test, test, test, test.
It's working, Jane.
Great, thanks.
Good.
Is it on?
Yeah.
I think that maybe researching books is a long way from doing research with rats in a laboratory, but I think that my joy of discovery and working with the unknown has been with me for a long time.
I think we become more of what we are and not less as we get older.
I sort of found my niche with this series.
As the books started accumulating on the shelves,
I started to wonder who were these men and these women who wrote and illustrated these books.
Most of the names were unknown to me.
Some of them you might know, but most of them you probably would not.
They were regional writers.
Some of them were household names, like Henry Seidel Panby, who wrote The Brand New Wine.
He wasn't a household name to me because I didn't live in that era.
But he was to me.
But he was to Gene.
I read the Saturday Review probably subscribed for 25 years.
So was Coffin, by the way.
So was Coffin.
Walter Havidhurst was a regional writer.
He spent most of his academic years at the University of Miami in Ohio.
But he was an expert on the Great Lakes.
So Skinner selected these people very carefully.
It wasn't that she...
was just looking for any writer.
She was looking for specific writers who would know their territory well, who were known to the people in, say, California.
Julian Dana wrote The Sacramento.
It was I think the third or fourth book in the series.
He had written Sutter of California, which was a book
S-U-T-T-E-R.
Published by the Pioneer Press in California, but it was selected as the book for the centennial of the state of California.
He was a known quantity.
He was a very good writer, meticulous researcher, and Gertrude Atherton talks about him in her book, My San Francisco, a Wayward Autobiography, a Wayward Biography.
So she...
had a list of people she felt comfortable working with and selecting to write books in the series.
When I found her papers at the New York Public Library, and Jean and I were there over the Thanksgiving holiday, she had a list of about 15 or 20 people that she was considering.
Anyway, that's digressing a little from
my interest in the authors and the old strips.
I started writing letters.
I went to the library and contemporary authors, contemporary autobiography.
I had my list of 60 people.
Many of them are listed in Yale publications.
And they give a little biography and addresses.
I didn't know if they were living or dead.
It was difficult to tell from their dates of birth.
So I prepared a three-page typewritten letter figuring I had one shot.
Either they were going to throw it away or they were going to respond.
They didn't know me.
I didn't have any history.
I had never written a book before.
I had never done... Did you have it in your mind at this point that you were writing about?
No, not at all.
I was doing it simply for my own personal information.
I was trying to determine if their particular book was issued in a
signed limited edition.
At this point it seems to me you're trying to document your collection.
Right.
Basically.
I was trying to find out more about the book.
It doesn't seem to be a scholarly impulse at this point.
I wouldn't think so.
I think it was a sense of order that she wanted to get things organized, find out.
It started out, how many books are there in the series?
Well, nobody knew.
And then that led to all sorts of ideas about subsequent editions and
printings and commemorative editions and special signs, this and that.
And I have to say, at that time, I didn't see myself so much as a book collector as sort of a specialist on the Federal Writers Project, because I collected anything that they had touched.
I would get a badge from a button from a convention or just some throwaway that they had announcing it.
a book fair, something like that.
I didn't consider myself then really knowledgeable about books per se.
But Carol was relentless.
She wanted to know, what is the Rivers of America?
Where are they?
Who wrote them?
And I wrote in my letter, how did you come to write this book?
Great question.
And were you pleased with the illustrations?
Were you pleased with the final result?
Do you have a blank copy of the letter?
That I sent out?
Yeah, I think I can do that for you.
and this was in may of 1991 i don't know i probably sent six or seven letters so you've had enough for four years the collection essentially started in 80s well you got the first book in 86 the collection
Started growing rapidly.
About 87, started growing rapidly.
By 1991, you're writing letters now.
I'm very, very curious.
I'm at the library every day on my lunch hour.
This library here.
Yes, my office is directly across the street.
I'm an administrative assistant to a county commissioner.
And so every day, for about five years, I went to the library every noon, researching, looking for needles and haystacks.
and sometimes coming up with wonderful, wonderful information.
But when I wrote the letters in May, I wasn't quite sure what I was going to get.
Jane and I decided to go to New Mexico the first week in June.
One of the letters I had written was to Frank Waters.
Are you familiar with the name?
No.
He was a well-known writer, Western writer, Southwest.
lived in Taos.
He has a household name.
W-A-T-E-R-S, right?
Right.
His well-known book, The Man Who Killed the Deer, published in 1942.
Since then, he's written many others.
He wrote the book on the Colorado River.
Didn't know much about Frank Waters.
I simply wrote him.
He got one of my three pagers.
And... How did you find addresses to mail to?
In... Oh, in Gale Research.
In Gale Research.
And...
It's a marvelous, marvelous source.
If you're looking, I'm sure you'll be in there in the next publication, and they would have your address, your agent's address, and your address.
They may quote from a letter that you write in response to an encouragement.
What are you doing now?
What are you working on now?
A work in progress?
And they'll put it in their next publication.
So be careful what you say.
I always do.
Anyway, Jean and I were going to Taos.
It was a four-day weekend.
We had never been to New Mexico.
And we're sitting at this little inn, a prep it inn in Taos.
It's the very same as maybe the Taos Inn.
And he said, you know, Frank Waters lives in town here.
I took my book, The Colorado, just on the off chance.
Just on the off chance.
Don't tell me you're not a born collector.
But he had not responded to the letter.
So I said, well, maybe we'll give him a call.
Maybe we'll give him a call.
We will give him a call.
I remember sitting on the bed in that little hotel room.
And I told Gene, I said, I can't do it.
Will you please?
And Gene said, OK.
called and Mrs. Waters answered the telephone and she said, I guess Jean had relayed to me that the conversation went something like this.
We just got into town from Phoenix today.
We haven't even unpacked.
Can you come at four?
And gave us directions to go up to Arroyo Staco to a little house that is quite famous now since his death.
It's become more of a shrine to Frank Waters.
We arrived.
We were very gracious.
He was sitting in a chair.
He was suffering fibrosima.
He had an oxygen.
He had the oxygen in the nose sitting there in a sweater and very, very kindly spent an hour with us with this tape recorder running.
I asked if we could tape him, and he said yes.
Because he was used to that.
We didn't know that he was famous.
We never realized he was like the Hemingway of the American West.
I mean, he's like a saint.
He's a god of writing.
He's the only, how to say it, not white man in that.
because he is about 1 16th Indian or something like that.
He's the only person who was ever accepted by the Hopi.
They brought him in, the elders of the tribe explained all of their religious beliefs, which he wrote.
And that's his book there.
And it's an exposition.
Yes, it is.
Congratulations.
And the illustrations in the book are by Nikolai Fajin, who is a Russian painter.
He died, but he was...
They had a station house in Taos where samples of his work can be found.
Before we went to Frank Waters' house... You're not going to tell the story.
Yes, I love it.
It's wonderful.
I love it.
Gene is sitting on the bed in our little hotel room, and he's going, I said, what are you doing?
He said, I'm reading the book.
Oh, my God.
We're going to read the book.
We're going to see the man.
We haven't read the book.
So it was just one of those situations.
And we're looking at the illustrations and trying to finesse this incredible opportunity.
He did sign for me while we were there.
So we did talk about the illustrations, and Frank Waters got very, very upset.
He said they ruined, he said they were beautiful, beautiful illustrations that the publisher destroyed.
They didn't know how to reproduce them.
And Phaechin, of course, I've never seen an original Phaechin.
I don't think you'd get your hands on that.
But when you study Phaechin, then you find out he was also a towering figure.
It's an exquisite condition, isn't it?
It really is.
And that book came out also in an Armed Services Edition.
And looked, though the paper hasn't boxed or anything.
It's remarkable for books of that art.
Just to give you an idea of Frank Waters, Terry Tanner, who is a book dealer and a bibliographer, did a Frank Waters bibliography, which
set at all of his work.
You know, you mentioned that he had probably been interviewed many times.
I wouldn't be at all surprised if you check with the university down there.
I bet there's a terrific oral history on it.
Probably.
University of New Mexico.
Yeah, check that out.
Those oral histories are outstanding.
You know, sometimes you don't even need to do an interview with these people.
They're hundreds of pages long.
They even have his copyright certificate for the book.
which I found an error in Terry Tanner's bibliography.
He had the wrong date for the copyright.
I hated to tell him.
It's not all getting transmitted.
It's getting transmitted, it's not all getting received.
How are you getting the books all this?
We haven't mentioned how you're finding the books and for whom?
Okay, I have book dealers who specialize in the Rivers of America series.
One, my primary
supplier is Gordon Beckhorn, Hastings on Hudson.
There are several other book dealers who specialize, but I think Gordon has been my primary source.
Do you mind if I give him a call?
Oh no, please do.
He would be thrilled.
He's a scholar.
I think he used to be in the publishing business.
You might know him.
You might know of him without realizing who he is.
He is the book dealer who carried the manuscript Primary Colors.
That's great.
That he inadvertently had it in his catalog.
He's the one?
He's the one.
Great, nice going, Gordon.
He had his 15 minutes of fame in the New York Times, you know, the guy who Washington Post is the one that posted.
In fact, we take the New York Observer, which is a peach-colored New York paper, and Gordon had called me one day, and he said, I'm going to
He had ordered some books from him.
He said, I'm going to send you a copy of a newspaper article that you might find amusing.
He told me about it.
And I said, we get the New York Observer.
And I thought it was going to fall off the phone.
Nobody in Fort Lauderdale takes the New York Observer.
And I said, we do.
And they did a story on him.
And he'll be at the symposium.
Good.
I think John Cole has spoken with him.
So he's basically been your primary?
Yes.
generally speaking when you find a good bookseller who knows what you're after they're looking you know a great collector needs a great bookseller absolutely and Gordon let me tell a quick Gordon okay my memory is it was Gordon who participated in this conversation Carol said I'm going to cut I'll probably tell it too quickly but she's saying something like
Oh, well, yeah, I'd like to have that eighth turning of the Hudson.
And there was a pause on the telephone.
And Gordon said, Oh, I see what you're doing.
because she was collecting every printing of every issue of every one of the books in the series.
And he was used to dealing with collectors who won the first edition in good condition with a good dust jacket.
She's saying, oh, I'll take that seventh or eighth or ninth or whatever.
Why is it necessary to get every edition, every printing?
Well, I'm writing a descriptive bibliography of the series.
And if you're writing a descriptive bibliography of the series, you need to have
either examined or owned the books, because you're going to talk about the first printing, the second printing, the third printing, how they differ, the changes in the editorial staff, maybe some changes in the text.
How are you determining this?
You like about the books.
How are you determining?
Are you collating every edition against every other one?
Well, the collations don't change much, but the information in the book does, and with my work,
Theoretically, you should be able to tell the edition without the dust jacket.
The dust jackets are the key for most modern reprints.
So if you pick up one of the Rivers books, you won't know whether it's the second or third or fourth.
And there were changes in the editorial staff over the years.
The original editor, Constance Lindsay Skinner, died in 1939.
Then Stephen Vincent Binet and Carl Carmer became co-editors.
Binet
dropped dead.
How do we spell Carmer?
C-A-R-M-E-R.
Binet died suddenly in 1943, and Herbie Allen was brought in as the general editor.
You know the name?
Herbie Allen, the great novelist, Anthony Adler, sold copies or whatever it was.
But anyway, he became editor of the series, and then Carl Carmer
was brought back to co-edit the series with Herbie Allen.
Allen died suddenly in 1959.
It wasn't a great thing to be an editor.
Sounds like there's a curse here.
And then Carl Carmer continues the edit of the series until it ended in 1974.
Stop.
Back to the question.
Collation.
Yes, you do.
She does the collation of every criminal.
And I'm not sure...
Nick, whether you realize what's in this book she's written, in addition to the bibliographical material.
There is a biography of every one of these 60 authors, every one of the 55 illustrators.
You've done all this?
She's done all that.
I have tracked.
There's a publishing history of the whole thing through at least three different publishing houses.
There are write-ups on the editors, the art editors.
Who were these people?
There's a biography of a good biographical sketch of Skinner.
This is a... I've never seen a bibliography like that.
What's the state of the bibliography right now?
Well... Did you latch onto this?
That's the... You were writing while she was talking about this.
And this is... Tanner's around here.
He's a very nice fellow.
But let me know.
She works at nights, weekends, and holidays.
The only time she doesn't work is when we're out of the country on vacation.
And even then, I think she's working on it in her head.
But here are some examples.
The pink sheets are finished.
No, virtually finished.
This is, you know, you're familiar with these.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, of course, yeah.
There were only, what, four that got admitted into the farm services.
Okay.
Here's... Here are a couple.
Here's the Arkansas and the Granby one.
Do you have somebody who's going to publish this already?
Well, John Cole told me not to worry about it.
I love John.
John says not to worry.
He went a little further than that.
She has a lot of her job, which pretty much says it.
Well, this deserves to be... Well, get your book published.
If it's jointly pressed with a university cross-site, you know.
Am I the only one that's beginning to get cool?
Are you cool?
I'm fine.
You're okay?
One of the reasons these books are still in good condition.
It's too cool.
It doesn't matter which way it goes.
We never open the windows because of these...
The way we live.
Let me know also when you're ready for another pile of coffee.
Take two minutes.
That's cold by now.
So these, what you're showing me here, these are... Let me show you how this is set up.
This will be the first edition, first printing.
The first edition, third printing, first Reinhardt, probably fall of 1947.
And you go through all this.
I mean, who cares, really?
But somebody might care then.
excerpts from the archives.
So where are some of the excerpts?
And then I'll go into the biography of the author.
Is it possible for this piece that I'm writing, do you have copies of these that I can borrow or read?
I'm not going to impinge on anything that you're doing.
Okay.
But just to give an example of what this... Sure.
Yes.
I don't have any problem.
Here is a biography of the illustrator.
And this one's not a really good one because it's just about the...
Here's... You know, maybe you could select some things and mail them to me.
That would be fine.
Well, we could do something there.
Here's the Allagash, which was a later book.
This came out in 1968, but it was... Yeah, Maine.
And Lou Deeks, he was... He's still living.
There's a great, great quote.
What city was it?
Rockport, Maine.
He says, when I got to Rockport,
There were three Democrats in the whole town.
The garbage man, the town drunk, and me.
George Lowe, the illustrator, I believe he will be at the symposium.
Have you got an about thee?
Yeah, about thee.
So in the section about thee, then I have when they signed the agreement covering the writing of the allegation.
advance of $2,000.
It gives a little history.
Where are you getting all of this now?
Where are you getting all of this information from?
Henry Holden Company.
That's my publisher.
So the publishers are being very... Henry Holden Company.
Unbelievable.
Here are the files and records.
Wonderful.
Copy anything you like without any restrictions.
Give us a buzz down the hole.
You may know, what's her name, Kaplan?
Muriel Kaplan.
Oh, you know Muriel.
Muriel's wonderful.
Muriel's going to be at the symposium.
We're 10 feet away from her.
She says, let us know if you need anything.
Make all the copies you like.
They dedicated a copy.
They gave me Bruna's boardroom.
And guess what?
The first drawer says, says Robert Frost.
I said, hmm, I know that.
Pull the drawer up and take out the contract.
This is the way I have it set up.
I mean, this is just, you know, it has the contents and the preface.
You should offer this to Holt.
They have seen it.
They don't know that they can market a bibliography.
They may change their minds.
They were the only publisher interested in my book.
I bet they're glad.
They were very glad.
They've done a History of the Rivers series, and this goes, you know, on.
They were very complimentary about this manuscript.
Very complimentary.
They were frank about it.
Which editor did you show it to?
Just Holt and Vanderbilt University Press.
No, no, no.
Which editor Holt?
Oh, Bill Sussbaum.
He's editor-in-chief.
Got a nice letter back from him, about four pages.
Then each of the publishers that participated in the publication gets a look.
And then there's the biopsies of the editor, here's Skinner.
And then the map makers, they were very important.
I'm in awe of...
uh what you what you're doing here yeah but it's it's putting this is packaging this whole series do you have all the books by the way they're all here so so so you have the complete series oh i have i have first editions i don't there were about a little bit over 350 more than 350 printings and editions but there were 65 books in the series i've got first editions of all 65 and all the signed limited editions
I've got the Songs of the Rivers of America.
How did you do this in 10 years?
I mean, I'm amazed these were available out there.
It's very difficult to find them in good condition now.
They're very collected.
What was the most elusive title?
I know.
Yeah.
The Brandywine.
This one.
Let me open it for you.
That's the one with the Andrew Wyeth illustrations.
More than that.
That's inscribed by
The author and the special Delaware edition of the brand new one is printed exclusively for the Greenwood Bookshop and is limited to 650 copies each signed by the author and the artist.
And there you have one.
And this is number 340.
Pretty good.
That was the most elusive, except there's one you don't have.
Which one is that?
Indianapolis.
No, I have it.
I don't have it in Dust Jackets.
Oh.
This is probably my most precious book here.
Which is?
It's a copy of St.
Croix, which was written by James Taylor Dunn.
Jim Dunn will be the symposium.
Published in 19... Let the interview arrive.
1965, I had to get my date straight.
This was given to Mr. Dunn by the publisher, which you might want to...
Let's just hold it very gently here.
A special long copy of the St.
Coy, the manager of the author, December 1965, at UT Ring.
Hold on.
Look at all the inscriptions on this.
The special copy is for Carol Fitzgerald, with many thanks for her dedicated work on the Rivers series.
Jim, great.
He gave it to me.
That's wonderful.
The last time she described that book out of public lecture she was giving,
The tears flowed.
Yeah.
And he put a picture of himself in the editorial staff, and that's a very nice addition.
When did the series stop?
1974.
And were they satisfied that it was completed, or did they get one out of juice?
Well, I think that Carl Carman must have been very ill back in those days.
I don't know if I'm sure he died in 1976, I understand, from...
Margaret Sanborn, who wrote the last book in the series, The American, that they were just using his name.
He was really not participating to the degree that an editor should.
Pace Barnes was the editor of the series in those days.
She was here in South Florida.
She was editor from 67 to 74.
She will be at the symposium also.
She's still quite young.
But I think the tastes changed.
Maybe Ed Holt, Reinhardt, and Winston, maybe they just didn't see the value of continuing this.
They were in the business of selling books.
Maybe they weren't selling, I don't know.
Maybe they weren't marketing them.
Maybe they just didn't have an editorial core that cared about that type of literature.
Maybe what Anita was a new young editor that believed in the project.
So, do you have any sense of what the original goal was?
How many rivers?
Yes, 24.
In her essay, Skinner set out 24 rivers.
So they far exceeded her original plan.
Oh, absolutely.
These were making money for Reinhardt.
During the war years, the research I have done indicates that they had to sell books in order to get paper.
The paper they were allotted during the war years was directly related to how many books they could sell.
And these were selling regionally.
What do you suspect the attraction was the fascination for these books?
I think people were not able to travel.
I think that the state guides from the WPA had... I think there was a... The depression, in my judgment,
made the nation look inward.
America began to look at herself and say, who are we and what are we and how is this, how can this happen?
Roosevelt's famous quote, one third of the nation, ill clothed, ill fed, ill housed.
And a nation that had every wealth, every wealth on earth, including its people, they began to look inward and the Federal Writers Project and the Federal Theater Project and the Federal Arts Project, which were almost
divine gifts to the country, I think, on a par with the GI Bill of Rights, for instance, which, you know, what that did for this country.
The country began to look inward, and we had this marvelous woman who was a Canadian by birth and had a newspaper woman.
A lot of these authors, by the way, were journalists.
I'm on the river stand.
And it was, this is a major part of a much bigger scene of
series Americana.
The lakes of America, the trail, the trail series, the port series, the American folkways, and there's probably another dozen.
By the way, if there's ever a second book from her, it'll be on other series Americana.
Well, are you collecting in other areas?
Oh, yes.
I have rather complete collections in many other series Americana.
There's even, I'll take them to the next room, there's even a series on
regional murders.
There is.
And you're collecting that.
Mm-hmm.
Do you foresee doing the same kind of project?
Not to the extent that I've done with the Rivers.
The other theories really cannot compare to the Rivers theories in the scope and the size and the interest.
This was just an extraordinary literary
What's the name of the symposium at the Library of Congress?
I believe it will be the Rivers of America.
So this is a symposium being put together at the Library of Congress.
It's based on my work.
Essentially, what is your work?
Exactly.
I have provided John Cole with all of the information, all of the bios on the living authors, the names, addresses, background on the book,
And we have met several times in the past few months.
Jean and I were in Washington in November.
John's been down here about three times, so we're here tomorrow to spend a couple of hours.
John's coming to talk.
Tomorrow?
Yeah, I would say.
And we spent time with Carol in Vanderbilt when her elections owner said that she gave a lecture on the series.
Did you know that?
No, I didn't.
Do you have a copy of the lecture?
that you could send to me?
Again, it's not something I have to say.
No, that's okay.
I think that's supposed to be reprinted in the Vanderbilt Chronicle.
They asked to reprint my talk.
It was the bicentennial of the state of Tennessee.
Vanderbilt was to do quarterly exhibits.
They chose for one quarter the Rivers of America series using my collection here.
I shipped them up about 100 books from my collection in ephemera.
trying to concentrate on Tennessee.
I mean, I sent all 65 books, but we set the cases out to highlight the Tennessee rivers.
And it was very, very successful.
In fact, it was extended twice.
I didn't get the books back until Christmas time.
Bad timing.
All the little places in the bookshelf had been taken up with other things, so I had to find a place for four crates of books.
Are all the books here?
Yeah.
And how many do you have in the collection?
I know you probably gave it to me earlier.
Probably, I would say about 320, but I am still lacking some of the... And what are some of the ones that you're seeing?
Well, it'll be the reprints.
It's like maybe the paperback reprint from the University of Nebraska Press that
Maybe it's the third printing.
In order just to give a complete publishing history of series.
Will you be able to go ahead and complete the bibliography?
In a bibliography such as this, what I'm missing are minor books.
And if I have to go to press, I will just have to say, not seen.
And that's okay.
That's okay.
That's right.
You do the best you can, and people will eventually fill in, but I'm not missing any major piece.
And what's the working title of the bibliography?
Maybe I can get a... It is The Rivers of America, a descriptive bibliography, including biographies of the authors, illustrators, and editors by Carol Fitzgerald, 1990?
It was maybe 2,000.
$1.99.
I love that.
Do you have a fax here right away?
Sure.
Maybe we could fax a few things back and forth, too.
It's 954-463-9509.
Okay, that's your fax.
Let me just briefly go down this chronology.
I wanted to throw out a few names that might mean something to you as far as illustrators and authors.
Thomas D. Clark, you may not know the name.
He is a Kentucky historian, a long-term professor at the University of Kentucky.
expert in that field, probably the Civil War too, but when Ken Burns did the Civil War, he was one of the narrators, you know, when they interviewed various people.
Edgar Lee Masters wrote a book in the series, and his book was illustrated by Lind Ward, who, do you know the name?
Everybody knows one.
I know Edgar Lee Masters' son, Hilary Masters.
I've corresponded with him.
He's going to be invited to the symposium to attend.
The Spoon River Anthology.
That was his father's book.
Precisely.
Which caused a scandal at the time.
Can I see the title?
I know I have it on the table.
I'll make a copy for you.
Frederick Way was a riverboat captain.
He wrote the book on the Allegheny.
River, but his book was illustrated by Henry C. Pitt.
You may be familiar with him your way.
He was from Philadelphia.
August Derla, does that mean anything to you?
No.
Okay, he wrote the Wisconsin... John Stuart Curry, the artist.
These were people back in the 40s.
Hodding Carter.
Hodding Carter, I know.
Okay, Hodding Carter wrote Lower Mississippi.
Henry Bestin is the outer... Very famous.
Yes, he wrote the book on St.
Lawrence.
It was illustrated by A.Y.
Jackson, who was a Canadian artist and was one of the Group of Seven.
Very famous in Canada, the Group of Seven, with our whole museum.
Harry Hanson, who was the newspaper man, wrote the Chicago, illustrated by Harry Timmons.
How do these books sell?
Do you have publication figures?
Yes, to some degree.
You can tell by the number of reprints that they were, usually the print runs were 5,000.
Some of the bigger books, like the Potomac by Frederick Gutham, I think they printed 10,000.
The Ohio had a print run of 20,000.
Which do you think was the best-selling book?
of the whole series?
Which one might have been the most popular one?
I think the most popular one to date is The Everglades River of Grass by Marjory Stoneman Douglas.
Mrs. Douglas is still living.
She's 107 years old.
It's April.
Her book went through seven printings during the time of the books were published by Reinhardt and
I just want to write down this whole Reinhardt and Winston.
Look at the condition that you've got, which is magnificent.
Excuse me.
Go ahead.
The man knows books.
The book was then, came out in a revised edition that she published herself, two editions, Hurricane House, then it was printed by Banyan Books in 1978.
Excuse me.
In 19...
In 1974, Mockingbird Books brought out the book in a paperback.
It's gone through 12 printings.
In 1988, Pineapple Press began publishing the book with a new afterword by the author, and they have gone through six.
Notice the Floridian Publishers.
Hurricane House, Pineapple Press, Mockingbird Press.
What's it missing?
Was every book illustrated?
The Cape Fear was not illustrated, and I believe it was the only one that was not.
I don't know why.
The author died before the book came out.
It doesn't make sense why they did not include illustrations, but it wasn't.
saint of the environmentalist movement in Florida.
And she has given her name to so many of these things.
Even the Department of Natural Resources, which has a skyscraper building in the state capital Tallahassee, called the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Law building.
My sense is that these books individually probably are not really expensive books.
Okay.
Well, let me ask a question.
Yes.